[Google Scholar Profile](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=fi371DYAAAAJ&hl=en)

<iframe width="800"  src='https://insarmaps.miami.edu/start/25.8857/-80.0/13.8/?startDataset=S1_IW3_048_0081_0082_20150921_20211112_SM_PS&minScale=-1&maxScale=1&zoomOut=false'></iframe>


#### 2023
1. Zorn, E. U.,  Vassileva M., Walter T. R., Darmawan H., Röhler L., Amelung, F. (2023). Interactions of magmatic intrusions with the multiyear flank instability at Anak Krakatau volcano, Indonesia: Insights from InSAR and analogue modeling. Geology ; doi: https://doi.org/10.1130/G50693.1. [PDF](Publications/ZornEtAl_Krakatau_geology_2023.pdf)
1. Mirzaee, S., Amelung F.,  Fattahi, H. (2023). Non-linear phase linking using joined distributed and persistent scatterers, Computers & Geosciences, Volume 171, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cageo.2022.105291. [PDF](Publications/MirzaeeAmelungFattahi_miaplpy_ComputersGeosciences_2023.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/MirzaeeAmelungFattahi_miaplpy_ComputersGeosciences_Supp_2023.pdf)
#### 2022
1. Farquharson J. I., Amelung F. (2022). Volcanic hazard exacerbated by future global warming-driven increase in heavy rainfallR. Soc. open sci.9220275220275, http://doi.org/10.1098/rsos.220275. [PDF](Publications/FarquharsonAmelung_VolcanicHazardsClimateChange_rsos_2022.pdf)
1. Gregg, P. M., Zhan, Y., Amelung, F., Geist, D., Mothes, P., Koric, S., & Yunjun, Z. (2022). Forecasting mechanical failure and the 26 June 2018 eruption of Sierra Negra Volcano, Galápagos, Ecuador. Science Advances, 8(22), eabm4261. [PDF](https://github.com/falkamelung/falkamelung.github.io/blob/master/Publications/GreggZhanAmelung_SierraNegra2018_ScienceAdvances_2022.pdf)
1. Lv, X., F. Amelung, Y. Shao (2022). Widespread Aseismic Slip Along the Makran Megathrust Triggered by the 2013 Mw 7.7 Balochistan Earthquake, Geophysical Research Letters, 10.1029/2021GL097411. [PDF](Publications/LvAmelungShao_AfterSlipMakranMegathrust_GRL_2022.pdf),[Supp.](Publications/LvAmelungShao_AfterSlipMakranMegathrust_GRL_Supp2022.pdf).
1. Farquharson, J.I., Amelung, F., Reply to: Rainfall an unlikely factor in Kīlauea’s 2018 rift eruption. Nature 602, E11–E14 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-04164-0
#### 2021
1. Kumar, H., Syed, T.H., Amelung, F., Agrawal, R. and Venkatesh, A.S., 2021. Space-time evolution of land subsidence in the national capital region of india using ALOS-1 and sentinel-1 SAR data: Evidence for groundwater overexploitation. Journal of Hydrology, p.127329.
1. Varugu, B., Amelung, F. Southward growth of Mauna Loa???s dike-like magma body driven by topographic stress. Sci Rep 11, 9816 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-89203-6 [PDF](Publications/VaruguAmelung_MaunaLoa_SciReports_2021.pdf)[Supp](Publications/VaruguAmelung_MaunaLoa_ScienReps_Supp_2021.pdf)
#### 2020
3. Lv, Xiaoran, Falk Amelung, Yun Shao, Shu Ye, Ming Liu, and Chou Xie. "Rheology of the Zagros Lithosphere from PostSeismic Deformation of the 2017 Mw7. 3 Kermanshah, Iraq, Earthquake." Remote Sensing 12, no. 12 (2020): 2032. [PDF](Publications/LvAmelung_Kermanshah2017PostSeismic_RemoteSensing_2018.pdf)
4. Farquharson, J.I., Amelung, F. Extreme rainfall triggered the 2018 rift eruption at Kīlauea Volcano. Nature 580, 491–495 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2172-5, [PDF](Publications/FarquharsonAmelung_Nature_2020_full.pdf), [ News & Views by M. Manga](Publications/Manga_NewsViews_Nature_2020.pdf), [Author Corrections](Publications/FarquharsonAmelung_Nature_2020_Author_correction.pdf)
#### 2019  
1. Yunjun, Z., Fattahi, H., & Amelung, F. (2019). Small baseline InSAR time series analysis: unwrapping error correction and noise reduction. *Computers & Geosciences*, 104331. [PDF](Publications/YunjunFattahiAmelung_ComputersGeoscienes_2019.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/YunjunFattahiAmelung_ComputersGeoscienes_Supp_2019.pdf)
1.	Shuangyu Ge, Guoqing Lin, Falk Amelung, Paul G. Okubo, Don Swanson (2019), The accommodation of the south flank's motion by the Koa'e fault system, Kīlauea, Hawai'i: insights from the June 2012 earthquake sequence, DOI:10.1029/2018JB016961, [PDF](Publications/Ge_et_al-2019-Journal_of_Geophysical_Research__Solid_Earth.pdf)
1.	Heap MJ, Villeneuve M, Albino F, Farquharson JI, Brothelande E, Amelung F, Got J-Luc, Baud P (2019), Towards more realistic values of elastic moduli for volcano modelling, J. Volc. Geotherm. Res., doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2019. [PDF](Publications/Heapetal_YoungsModulus_JVGR_2019.pdf)
1. Wetzler, N., Shalev, E., Göbel, T., Amelung, F., Kurzon, I., Lyakhovsky, V., & Brodsky, E. E. (2019). Earthquake swarms triggered by groundwater extraction near the Dead Sea Fault. *Geophys. Res. Letts.*, 46.      [PDF](Publications/Wetzler_et_al-2019-Geophysical_Research_Letters.pdf)
1. Y. Cao, Zhiwei Li, F. Amelung (2019) Mapping ground displacement by a multiple phase difference‐based InSAR approach: with stochastic model estimation and turbulent troposphere mitigation. *J. Geodesy*. [PDF](Publications/CaoLiAmelung_MultiplePhaseDifferencesInSAR_JournalGeodesy_2019.pdf)
1. Morales Rivera, A. M., Amelung, F., Albino, F., & Gregg, P. M. (2019). Impact of crustal rheology on temperature‐dependent viscoelastic models of volcano deformation: Application to Taal volcano, Philippines. *J. Geophys. Res.*, 124. [PDF](Publications/MoralesRiveraAmelung_etal_Taal_JGR_2018.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/MoralesRiveraAmelung_etal_Taal_JGR_2018._supp.docx)
#### 2018
1. Pritchard, M. E., J. Biggs, C. Wauthier, E. Sansosti, D. W. D. Arnold, F. Delgado, S. K. Ebmeier, S. T. Henderson, K. Stephens, C. Cooper, K. Wnuk, F. Amelung, V. Aguilar, P. Mothes, O. Macedo, L. E. Lara, M. P. Poland, S. Zoffoli (2018). Towards coordinated regional multi-satellite InSAR volcano observations: results from the Latin America pilot project. *Journal of Applied Volcanology*, 7(1), 5. [PDF](Publications/Pritchard_etal_LatinAmericaCEOS_2018.pdf)
1. Brothelande, E., Amelung, F., Yunjun, Z., & Wdowinski, S. (2018). Geodetic evidence for interconnectivity between Aira and Kirishima magmatic systems, Japan. *Scientific Reports*, 8(1), 9811. [PDF](Publications/Brothelande_et_al-2018-Scientific_Reports.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/Brothelande_et_al-2018-Scientific_Reports_Supp.pdf)
1. Albino, F., Amelung, F., & Gregg, P. (2018). The role of pore fluid pressure on the failure of magma reservoirs: Insights from Indonesian and Aleutian arc volcanoes. *J. Geophys. Res.*, 123]. [PDF](Publications/AlbinoAmelungGregg_ReservoirFailure_JGR_2018.pdf).
#### 2017
1. Morales Rivera, A. M. , F. Amelung, P. Mothes, S.-H. Hong, J.-M. Nocquet, and P. Jarrin (2017), Ground deformation before the 2015 eruptions of Cotopaxi volcano detected by InSAR, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 44, 6607–6615]. [PDF](Publications/MoralesAmelungMothes_NorthernAndes_GCubed_2016.pdf)
1. Torres, Y., K. Premaratne, F. Amelung, S. Wdowinski, An Efficient Polyphase Filter-Based Resampling Method for Unifying the PRFs in SAR Data, *IEEE TGRS*. 55 (10), 5741-5754. [PDF](Publications/Torres_etal_Polyphase_IEEE_2017.pdf)
1. Davidge, L., Ebinger, C., Ruiz, M., Tepp, G., Amelung, F., Geist, D., Coté, D. and Anzieta, J. (2017). Seismicity patterns during a period of inflation at Sierra Negra volcano, Galápagos Ocean Island Chain. *EPSL*, 462, pp.169-179. [PDF](Publications/DavidgeEbingeretal_SierraNegra_EPSL_2017.pdf)
#### 2016
1. Morales Rivera*, A. M., F. Amelung, and P. Mothes (2016), Volcano deformation survey over the Northern and Central Andes with ALOS InSAR time series, *Geochem. Geophys. Geosyst.*, 17, 2869–2883, doi:10.1002/2016GC006393. [PDF](Publications/MoralesAmelungMothes_NorthernAndes_GCubed_2016.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/MoralesAmelungMothes_NorthernAndes_Supp_GCubed_2016.pdf)
1. Fattahi, H., and F. Amelung (2016), InSAR observations of strain accumulation and fault creep along the Chaman Fault system, Pakistan and Afghanistan, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 43. [PDF](Publications/FattahiAmelung_ChamanGhazabandFault_GRL_2016.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/FattahiAmelung_ChamanGhazabandFault_Supp_GRL_2016.pdf)
1. Zhao, W., Amelung, F., Doin, M. P., Dixon, T. H., Wdowinski, S., & Lin, G. (2016). InSAR observations of lake loading at Yangzhuoyong Lake, Tibet: Constraints on crustal elasticity. *EPSL*, 449, 240-245]. [PDF](Publications/ZhaoAmelungetal_TibetLakeLoading_EPSL_2016.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/ZhaoAmelungetal_TibetLakeLoading_Supp_EPSL_2016.docx)
1. Allison, M., Yuill, B., Törnqvist, T., Amelung, F., Dixon, T., Erkens, G., Stuurman, R., Jones, C., Milne, G., Steckler, M. and Syvitski, J., 2016. Global risks and research priorities for coastal subsidence. *EOS*, 97(19), pp.22-27. [PDF](https://eos.org/features/global-risks-and-research-priorities-for-coastal-subsidence)
#### 2015
1. Fattahi, H., and F. Amelung (2015), InSAR bias and uncertainty due to the systematic and stochastic tropospheric delay, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 120, 8758–8773, https://doi:10.1002/2015JB012419. [PDF](Publications/FattahiAmelung_TroposphericDelay_JGR_2015.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/FattahiAmelung_TroposphericDelay_Supp_JGR_2015.pdf)
1.	Lin, G., F. Amelung, P. M. Shearer, and P. G. Okubo (2015), Location and size of the shallow magma reservoir beneath Kīlauea caldera, constraints from near-source Vp/Vs ratios, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 42. [PDF](Publications/LinAmelungShearer_Kilauea_GRL_2015.pdf)
1.	Yang, Q., Zhao, W., Dixon, T. H., Amelung, F., Han, W. S., & Li, P. (2015). InSAR monitoring of ground deformation due to CO 2 injection at an enhanced oil recovery site, West Texas. *International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control* ,41, 20-28. [PDF](Publications/YangZhaoDixonAmelung_CO2InjectionTexas_IJGGC_2015.pdf)
1.	Plattner, C., Malservisi, R., Amelung, F., Dixon, T.H., Hackl, M., Verdecchia, A., Lonsdale, P., Suarez‐Vidal, F. and Gonzalez‐Garcia, J. (2015). Space geodetic observation of the deformation cycle across the Ballenas Transform, Gulf of California. *J. Geophys. Res.*, 120(8), pp.5843-5862. [PDF](Publications/PlattnerMalservisiAmelung_BallenasBaja_2015_JGR.pdf)
1.	Fattahi, H, F. Amelung, E.Chaussard and S. Wdowinski (2015), Coseismic and postseismic deformation due to the 2007 M5.5 Ghazaband earthquake, Balochistan, Pakistan, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 42, doi: 10.1002/2015GL063686. [PDF](Publications/FattahiAmelung_Ghazaband_GRL_2015.pdf)
1.	Lin, G., P. M. Shearer, F. Amelung, and P. G. Okubo (2015), Seismic tomography of compressional wave attenuation structure for Kı̄lauea Volcano, Hawai‘i, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 120, doi: 10.1002/2014JB011594. [PDF](/Publications/LinShearer_KilaueaAttenuation_JGR_2015.pdf)
1.	Baker, S., and F. Amelung (2015), Pressurized magma reservoir within the east rift zone of Kīlauea Volcano, Hawai‘i: Evidence for relaxed stress changes from the 1975 Kalapana earthquake, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 42, http://doi:10.1002/2015GL063161. [PDF](Publications/BakerAmelung_KilaueaNapau_GRL_2015.pdf)
1.	Amelung, F., E. J. Fielding and S. Sigmundsson (2015), EO for the mitigation of Geological Disasters, The Earth Observation Handbook, *Special Edition for the 3rd UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, CEOS*. [PDF](Publications/Amelung_CEOS_EOHB_2015_WCDRR.pdf)
#### 2014
1.	Bagnardi, M., Poland, M. P., Carbone, D., Baker, S., Battaglia, M., & Amelung, F. (2014). Gravity changes and deformation at Kīlauea Volcano, Hawai ‘i, associated with summit eruptive activity, 2009–2012. *J. Geophys. Res.*. [PDF](Publications/BagnardiPoland_KilaueaGravity_JGR_2014.pdf)
1.	Fattahi, H., & Amelung, F. (2014). InSAR uncertainty due to orbital errors. *Geophys. J. Int.*, 199(1), 549-560. [PDF](Publications/FattahiAmelung_OrbitalErrors_GJI_2014.pdf)
1.	Jackson, K. L., Eberli, G. P., Amelung, F., McFadden, M. A., Moore, A. L., Rankey, E. C., & Jayasena, H. A. H. (2014). Holocene Indian Ocean tsunami history in Sri Lanka. *Geology*, G35796-1. [PDF](Publications/Jackson_SriLankaTsunami_Geology_2014.pdf)
1.	Lin, G., Shearer, P. M., Matoza, R. S., Okubo, P. G., & Amelung, F. (2014). Three‐dimensional seismic velocity structure of Mauna Loa and Kilauea volcanoes in Hawaii from local seismic tomography. *J. Geophys. Res.*, doi: 10.1002/2013JB010820.  [PDF](paers/Lin_et_al-2014-Journal_of_Geophysical_Research__Solid_Earth.pdf)
1.	E. Chaussard, and F. Amelung (2014), Regional controls on magma ascent and storage in volcanic arcs, *Geochem. Geophys. Geosyst.*, 15. [PDF](Publications/ChaussardAmelung_MagmaAscentControl_Gcubed_2013.pdf)
1.	Lin, G., Amelung, F., Lavallée, Y., & Okubo, P. G. (2014). Seismic evidence for a crustal magma reservoir beneath the upper east rift zone of Kilauea volcano, Hawaii. *Geology*, G35001-1. [PDF](Publications/LinAmelung_Kilauea_Geology_2014.pdf)
1.	Zhao, W., Amelung F., Dixon, T.H.,  Wdowinski, S.  and Malservisi, R. (2014) A method for estimating ice loss from relative InSAR observations: Application to the Vatnajoekull ice cap, Iceland, *Geochem. Geophys. Geosyst.*, DOI: 10.1002/2013GC004936.  [PDF](Publications/ZhaoAmelungEtAl_Iceland_GCubed_2014.pdf)
1.	Chaussard, E., Wdowinski, S., Cabral-Cano, E., & Amelung, F. (2014). Land subsidence in central Mexico detected by ALOS InSAR time-series. *Remote Sensing of Environment*, 140, 94-106. [PDF](Publications/ChaussardEtAL_Mexico_RSE_2014.pdf)
#### 2013
1.	Kim, S-W, S. Wdowinski, F. Amelung, T. H. Dixon, and J-S Won (2013), Interferometric coherence analysis of the Everglades wetlands, South Florida, *IEEE TGRS*. [PDF](Publications/Kim_et_al_IEEE_2013.pdf)
1.	Chaussard, E. and F. Amelung (2013), Characterization of Geological Hazards Using a Globally Observing Spaceborne SAR, *Photogrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing*, 79, 11, 982-986. [PDF](Publications/ChaussardAmelung_GeolHazards_PERS_2013.pdf)
1.	Bagnardi, M., Amelung, F., & Poland, M. P. (2013). A new model for the growth of basaltic shields based on deformation of Fernandina volcano, Galápagos Islands. *EPSL*, 377, 358-366, doi:10.1016/j.epsl.2013.07.016 [PDF](Publications/BagnardiAmelung_Fernandina_EPSL_2013.pdf)
1.	Chaussard, E., Amelung, F., & Aoki, Y. (2013). Characterization of open and closed volcanic systems in Indonesia and Mexico using InSAR time‐series. *J. Geophys. Res.*, DOI: 10.1002/jgrb.50288 [PDF](Publications/ChaussardAmelungAoki_VolcanoCycles_JGR_2013.pdf)
1.	Plattner, C., Amelung, F., Baker, S., Govers, R., & Poland, M. (2013). The role of viscous magma mush spreading in volcanic flank motion at Kīlauea Volcano, Hawai‘i, *J. Geophys. Res.*, DOI: 10.1002/jgrb.50194. [PDF](Publications/PlattnerAmelungEtAl_Kilauea_JGR_2013.pdf)
1.	Ebmeier, S. K., Biggs, J., Mather, T. A., & Amelung, F. (2013). On the lack of InSAR observations of magmatic deformation at Central American volcanoes. *J. Geophys. Res.*, DOI: 10.1002/jgrb.50195 [PDF](EbmeierBiggs_CentralAmerica_JGR_2013.pdf)
1.	Ebmeier, S. K., Biggs, J., Mather, T. A., & Amelung, F. (2013). Applicability of InSAR to tropical volcanoes: insights from Central America. *Geological Society, London, Special Publications*, 380. [PDF](Publications/Ebmeieretal_CentralAmerica_GeolSoc_2013.pdf)
1.	Fattahi, H.  and F. Amelung (2013)  DEM-error correction in InSAR time-series analysis, *IEEE TGRS*, vol. no.99. [PDF](Publications/FattahiAmelung_DEMError_IEEE_2013.pdf)
1.	Acocella, V., Puglisi, G., & Amelung, F. (2013). Flank instability at Mt. Etna. *J. Volc. Geotherm. Res.*, 251, 1-4.
1.	Chaussard, E., Amelung, F., Abidin, H., Hong, S.-H. (2013), Sinking Cities in Indonesia: ALOS-PALSAR detects rapid subsidence due to groundwater and gas extraction, *Remote Sensing of Environment*, 128,  doi:10.1016/j.rse.2012.10.015.  [PDF](Publications/ChaussardAmelungHabidinHong_IndonesiaSubsidence_RSE_2013.pdf)
##### 2012
1.	Chaussard, E. and F. Amelung (2012), Precursory inflation of shallow magma reservoirs at west Sunda volcanoes detected by InSAR, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, doi:10.1029/2012GL053817. [PDF](Publications/ChaussardAmelung_IndonesiaVolcanoes_GRL_2012.pdf)
1.	Baker, S. and F. Amelung (2012), Top-down inflation and deflation at the summit of Kīlauea Volcano, Hawaii observed with InSAR, *J. Geophys. Res.*, doi:10.1029/2011JB009123. [PDF](Publications/BakerAmelung_Kilauea_JGR_2012.pdf)
1.	Bagnardi, M., and F. Amelung (2012), Space-geodetic evidence for multiple magma reservoirs and subvolcanic lateral intrusions at Fernandina Volcano, Galápagos Islands, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 117, B10406, doi:10.1029/2012JB009465. [PDF](Publications/BagnardiAmelung_Fernandina_JGR_2012.pdf)
1.  Ebmeier, S.K., J. Biggs, T.A. Mather, J.R. Elliott, G. Wadge and F. Amelung (2012) Measuring large topographic change with InSAR: lava thicknesses, extrusion rate and subsidence rate at Santiaguito Volcano, Guatemala, *EPSL*, 335-336, 216-225 [PDF](Publications/Ebmeieretal_Santiaguito_EPSL_2012.pdf)
1.	Bell, J. W., F. Amelung, and C. D. Henry (2012), InSAR analysis of the 2008 Reno-Mogul earthquake swarm: Evidence for westward migration of Walker Lane style dextral faulting, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 39, L18306, doi:10.1029/2012GL052795. [PDF](Publications/BellAmelungHenry_Mogul_GRL_2012.pdf)
##### 2011
1.	Parks, M.M,, J. Biggs, T.A. Mather, D.M. Pyle, F. Amelung,  M. L. Monsalve, L. Narvaez Medina (2011): Co-eruptive subsidence at Galeras identified during an InSAR survey of Colombian volcanoes (2006–2009). *J.  Volc. Geotherm. Res.* 202, 228–240. [PDF](Publications/ParksBiggs_Galeras_JVGR_2011.pdf)
1.	Gourmelen, N. Dixon, F. Amelung, Schmalzle (2011). Acceleration and Evolution of Faults: An Example from the Hunter Mountain Fault, Eastern California, *EPSL*, 301 (1-2): 337-344,2. [PDF](Publications/GourmelenDixonAmelungSchmalzle_EPSL_2011.pdf)
##### 2010
1.	Gourmelen, N., F. Amelung, and R. Lanari (2010), Interferometric synthetic aperture radar–GPS integration: Interseismic strain accumulation across the Hunter Mountain fault in the eastern California shear zone, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 115, B09408, doi:10.1029/2009JB007064. [PDF](Publications/GourmelenAmelungLanari_JGR_2010.pdf)
1.	Biggs, J., Mothes, P,  Ruiz, M., Baker, S., Amelung, F., Dixon, T., and Hong, S-H (2010), Stratovolcano growth by co-eruptive intrusion: 2008 eruption of Tungurahua, Ecuador, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*. [PDF](Publications/BiggsMothesRuizAmelungetal_GRL_2010.pdf)
1.	Calais, E. , A. Freed, G. Mattioli, S. Jonsson , F. Amelung, P. Jansma, S.-H. Hong, T. Dixon, C. Prepetit, and R. Momplaisir (2010), Transpressional rupture of an unmapped fault during the 2010 Haiti earthquake, doi 10.1038/NGEO992, *Nature Geosciences*. [PDF](Publications/CalaisFreedMattioliAmelungetal_NatureGeosciences_2010.pdf)
1.	Ebmeier, S. K., J. Biggs, T. A. Mather, G. Wadge, and F. Amelung (2010), Steady downslope movement on the western flank of Arenal volcano, Costa Rica, Geochem. Geophys. Geosyst., 11, Q12004, doi:10.1029/2010GC003263.  [PDF](Publications/EbmeierBiggsMatherWadgeAmelung_GCubed_2010.pdf)
1.	S.-W. Kim, S. Wdowinski, T. H. Dixon, F. Amelung, J.-W. Kim, and J.-S. Won (2010). Measurements and predictions of subsidence induced by soil consolidation using persistent scatterer InSAR and a hyperbolic model, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, Vol. 37, L05304, doi:10.1029/2009GL041644. [PDF](Publications/KimWdowinskiDixonAmelung_GRL_2010.pdf)
##### 2009
1.	Biggs, J., F. Amelung, N. Gourmelen, T. Dixon (2009), InSAR Observations of 2007 Tanzania Seismic Swarm Reveals Mixed Fault and Dyke Extension in an Immature Continental Rift, *Geophys. J. Int.*, Volume 179 Issue 1, Pages 549 – 558 [PDF](Publications/BiggsAmelung_Tanzania_GJI_2009.pdf)
##### 2008
1.	Bell, J. W., F. Amelung, A. Ferretti, M. Bianchi, and F. Novali (2008), Permanent Scatterer InSAR Reveals Seasonal and Long-Term Aquifer-System Response to Groundwater Pumping and Artificial Recharge, *Water Resour. Res.*, doi:10.1029/2007WR006152. [PDF](Publications/BellAmelungFerretti_2007WR006152.pdf)
1.	S. Wdowinski, Kim, S.W.,  F. Amelung, T. Dixon, F. Miralles-Wilhelm, R. Sonnenschein (2008). Space-based detection of surface water level changes in south Florida from L-band SAR interferometry. *Remote Sensing of Environment*, 112, 681 – 696. [PDF](Publications/WdowinskiKimAmelungetal_RSE_2008.pdf)
1.	Kim, S-W, S. Wdowinski, T.H. Dixon, F. Amelung, J-S. Won, J-W. Ki (2008), InSAR-based mapping of surface subsidence in Mokpo City, Korea, using JERS-1 and ENVISAT SAR data, *Earth Planets Space*, v.60, p. 453-461. [PDF](Publications/KimWdowinskiDixonAmelungetal_EPS_2008.pdf)
##### 2007
1.	Manconi, A., T.R. Walter and F. Amelung (2007) Effects of mechanical layering on volcano deformation. *Geophys. J. Int.*, doi: 10.1111/j.1365-246X.2007.03449.x [PDF](Publications/ManconiWalterAmelung_GJI2007.pdf)
1.	Walter T.R and Amelung F. (2007) Volcanic eruptions following M≥9 megathrust earthquakes: Implications for the Sumatra-Andaman volcanoes. *Geology*, 35(6), 539–542, DOI: 10.1130/G23429A.1. [PDF](Publications/WalterAmelung_geology_2007.pdf)
1.	Amelung, F., S.H. Yun, T. Walter, Paul Segall and S.-W. Kim (2007). Stress control of deep rift intrusion at Mauna Loa volcano, Hawaii. *Science*, 316: 1026-1030 [DOI: 10.1126/science.1140035]. [PDF](Publications/Amelung_etal_Science2007.pdf), [Mauna Loa perspective view](Publications/Amelung_MaunaLoa_3D.jpg)
1.	Gourmelen, N., F. Amelung, F. Casu, M. Manzo, and R. Lanari (2007), Mining-related ground deformation in Crescent Valley, Nevada: Implications for sparse GPS networks, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 34. [PDF](Publications/GourmelenAmelungetal_2007GL029427.pdf)
##### 2006
1.	Walter T. R. and F. Amelung (2006), Volcano-earthquake interaction at Mauna Loa volcano, Hawaii, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 111, B05204, doi:10.1029/2005JB003861. [PDF](Publications/WalterAmelung_HawaiiInteraction_JGR_2006.pdf)
1.	T. H. Dixon, F. Amelung, A, Ferretti, F. Novali, F. Rocca, R. Dokka, G. Sella, S.-W. Kim, S. Wdowinski, D. Whitman (2006), Subsidence and flooding in New Orleans, *Nature*, 441, 587-588. [PDF](Publications/DixonAmelung_Nature2006.pdf), [Supp.](Publications/DixonAmelung_NatureSupp2006.pdf)
##### 2005
1.	Gourmelen, N. and F. Amelung (2005),  Post-seismic mantle relaxation in the Central Nevada Seismic, *Science*, 310: 1473-1476. [PDF](Publications/GourmelenAmelung_science2005.pdf)
1.	Walter T. R., V. Acocella, M. Neri and F. Amelung (2005), Feedback processes between magmatic events and flank movement at Mount Etna (Italy) during the 2002–2003 eruption, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 110, B10205, doi:10.1029/2005JB003688. [PDF](Publications/WalterAccocellaNeriAmelung_JGR_2005.pdf)
1.	Jonsson S. P. Zebker, H, and Amelung, F. (2005) Trapdoor faulting of the Caldera Floor of Sierra Negra volcano, Galapagos Islands, *Jour. Volcan. Geotherm. Res.*, V144, pp 59-71. [PDF](Publications/JonssonZebkerAmelung_JVGR_2005.pdf)
##### 2004
1.	Wdowinski S., F. Amelung, F. Miralles-Wilhelm, T. H. Dixon and R. Carande (2004), Space-based measurements of sheet-flow characteristics in the Everglades wetland, Florida, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 31, L15503, doi:10.1029/2004GL020383. [PDF](Publications/WdowinskiAmelungetal_GRL_2004.pdf)
1.	Walter T.R, Troll V, Cailleau B, Belousov A, Schmincke H.U, Bogaard P, and Amelung F (2004) Rift zone reorganization through flank instability on ocean island volcanoes: Tenerife, Canary Islands., *Bull. Volc.*, DOI: 10.1007/s00445-004-0352-z. [PDF](Publications/WalterTrollCailleauetal_BVolc_2005.pdf)
1.	T.R. Walter and F. Amelung:  Influence of volcanic activity at Mauna Loa,  Hawaii (2004), on earthquake occurrence in the Kaoiki fault zone, Hawaii,  *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, Vol. 31, L07622, doi:10.1029/2003GL019131. [PDF](Publications/WalterAmelung_KaoikiInteraction_GRL_2004.pdf)
##### 2003
1.	Rowland S.K., Harris A.J.L., Wooster M.J., Amelung F., Garbeil H., Wison L., and Mouginis-Mark P.J. (2003),  Volumetic characteristics o lava flows from interferometric radar and multispectral satellite data: The 1995 Fermnandina and 1998 Cerro Azul eruptions in the Western Galapagos, *Bull. Volc.*, 65:311-330. [PDF](Publications/RowlandHarrisWoosterAmelungetal_BullVolc_2003.pdf)
1.	Amelung F. and J. W. Bell (2003), Interferometric synthetic aperture radar observations of the 1994 Double Spring Flat, Nevada, earthquake (M 5.9): Main shock accompanied by triggered slip on a conjugate fault, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 108 (B9), 2433,  [PDF](Publications/AmelungBell_JGR_2003.pdf)
#### 2002
1.	S. Jonsson, H. Zebker. P. Segall and F. Amelung (2002)  Fault slip distribution of the 1999 M7.2 Hector Mine earthquake, California, estimated from satellite radar and GPS measurements , *Bull. Seism. Soc. Amer.*, Vol. 92, No. 4, pp. 1377-1389. PDF](Publications/JonssonZebkerSegallAmelung_BSSA_2002.pdf)
1.	Amelung F. and S. Day (2002), InSAR observations of the 1995 Fogo,  Cape Verde, eruption:  Implications for the effects of collapse events upon island volcanoes, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 10.1029/2001GL013760. [PDF](Publications/AmelungDay_GRL_2002.pdf)
1.	Bell, John W., F. Amelung, Alan R. Ramelli, Geoff Blewitt (2002),  Land Subsidence in Las Vegas, Nevada, 1935-2000: New Geodetic Data Show Evolution, Revised Spatial Patterns, and Reduced Rates.  *Environmental & Engineering Geoscience*, Vol. VIII, No. 3, pp. 155-174. [PDF](Publications/BellAmelungetal_EEG_2002.pdf)
1.	Cervelli, P., P. Segall,  F. Amelung,  H. Garbeil, C. Meertens, S. Owen, A. Miklius,  and M. Lisowski (2002),  The 12 September 1999 Upper East Rift Zone dike intrusion at Kilauea Volcano, Hawaii, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 10.1029/2001JB000602. [PDF](Publications/Cervelli_etal_Kilauea_JGR_2002.pdf)
1.	J. Hoffmann, H. Zebker, D. Galloway and F. Amelung (2001):  Seasonal  subsidence in Las Vegas observed with synthetic aperture radar interferometry , *Water Resources Research*, Vol. 37, No. 6, p. 1551-1566. [PDF](Publications/HoffmannZebkerGallowayAmelung_WRR_2001.pdf)
##### 2000 and older
1.	Amelung, F., S. Jonsson, H. Zebker and P. Segall (2000), Widespread uplift and trap door faulting on Galápagos volcanoes observed with radar interferometry. *Nature*, Volume 407 No. 6807, p. 993-996. [PDF](Publications/AmelungJonnson_Nature_2000_WithCover.pdf)
1.	Amelung, F., Oppenheimer, Clive, Segall, P., Zebker (2000) H., Ground deformation near Gada 'Ale Volcano, Afar, observed by Radar Interferometry, *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, Vol. 27, No. 19, p. 3093. [PDF](Publications/Amelung_etal_GadaAle_2000_GRL.pdf)
1.	Zebker, H., Amelung, F., and Jonsson, S, (2000). Remote Sensing of Volcano Surface and Internal Processes using radar interferometry, *Geophysical Monograph* 116, Remote Sensing of Active Volcanoes, Ed: P. Mouginis-Mark, J. Crisp and J. Fink., p. 179-205. [PDF](Publications/ZebkerAmelungJonsson_monograph_2000.pdf)
1.	Kaufmann, G. and Amelung, F. (2000), Reservoir-induced deformation and continental rheology in vicinity of Lake Mead, Nevada , *J. Geophys. Res.*, Vol. 105 , No. B7 , p. 16,341. [PDF](Publications/KaufmannAmelung_JGR_2000.pdf)
1.	Amelung, F.,  D. Galloway, J. Bell, H. Zebker and R. Laczniak (1999), Sensing the ups and downs of Las Vegas: InSAR reveals structural control of land subsidence and aquifer-system deformation. *Geology*, Volume 27, No. 6, p. 483—486. [PDF](Publications/Amelung_etal_LasVegas_1999.pdf)
1.	Amelung, F. and G. King (1997), Large-scale tectonic deformation inferred from small earthquakes, *Nature*, 386, 702-705. [PDF](Publications/AmelungKing_nature1997.pdf)
1.	Amelung, F. and G. King (1997), Earthquake scaling laws for creeping and non-creeping faults., *Geophys. Res. Lett.*, 24, 507-510. [PDF](Publications/AmelungKing_CreepingFaults_GRL_1997.pdf)
1.	Bell, J.W, F. Amelung, and G.C.P. King,  Preliminary late quaternary slip history of the Carboneras fault, Southeastern Spain, *J. Geodynamics*, Vol. 24, Nos 1-4, pp. 51-66, 1997.
1.	Dorbath, C., D. Oppenheimer, F. Amelung and G. King (1996), Seismic tomography and deformation modeling of the junction of the San Andreas and Calaveras faults, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 101, 27917-27942,1996.
1.	King, G., D. Oppenheimer and F. Amelung (1994), Block versus continuum deformation in the Western United States, *EPSL*, 128, 55-64, 1994. [PDF](Publications/KingOppenheimerAmelung_BlockVsContDeformation_EPSL_1994.pdf)
1.	Amelung, F. and D. Wolf (1994), Viscoelastic perturbations of the earth: significance of the incremental gravitational force in models of glacial isostasy, *Geophys. J. Int.*, 117, 864-879, 1994. [PDF](Publications/AmelungWolf_GIA_GJI_1994.pdf)

#### No-peer reviewed publications:
1.	The NISAR Science team (including F. Amelung) (2018). The  NASA-ISRO SAR mission: Science User’s Handbook. *Publication of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL)*, 320 pages. https://nisar.jpl.nasa.gov/files/nisar/NISAR_Science_Users_Handbook.pdf
1.	Contributing author to: Scientific and Technical Memorandum of The International Forum on Satellite EO and Geohazards, 21-23 May,  Ph. Bally Ed. (2012),  2012, Santorini Greece. doi:10.5270/esa-geo-hzrd-2012 [PDF](Publications/The_International_Forum_on_Satellite_EO_and_Geohazards.pdf)

##### USGS Open file reports:
1.	Michelle Sneed, M. E. Ikehara, S. V. Stork, F. Amelung, and D. L. Galloway: Detection and Measurement of Land Subsidence Using Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar and Global Positioning System, San Bernardino County, Mojave Desert, California. *Water-Resources Investigations Report 03-4015. U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY*, Sacramento, California 2002
1.	Sneed, Michelle, Ikehara, M. E., Galloway, D.L., and Amelung, F:  Detection and measurement of land subsidence using global positioning system and interferometric synthetic aperture radar, Coachella Valley, California, 1996–98, *U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report* 01-4193, 26 p., 2001
1.	David W. Valentine1, Jill N. Densmore, Devin L. Galloway and Amelung, F. : Use of InSAR to Identify Land-Surface Displacements Caused by Aquifer-System: Compaction in the Paso Robles Area, San Luis Obispo County, California, March to August 1997. *Open-File Report* 00-447, 2001

##### Other reports
1.	B. Mapes and F. Amelung: INSAR for atmosphere workshop - Miami 2018  [Report](Publications/INSAR_for_atmosphere_workshop_2018_MiamiReport.pdf)
1.	F. Amelung, D. Sandwell. S. Buckley. Y. Fialko, R. Lohman: WinSAR Strategic Plan, 2008 (http://winsar.unavco.org/newsletters/WinSAR_Strategic_Plan_9-2008.pdf)
1.	Y. Fialko, F. Amelung, B. Brooks, J. Freymuller, F. Gomez, T. Melbourne, K, Feigl, G. Peltzer, G.Bawden, C. Dobson, A. Donnellan, Z. Lu, GeoEarthScope InSAR working Group, Report of planning meeting. 2006.
